---
title: "Testray 1.0"
description: "Debut Release"
layout: "guide"
weight: 2
---

<article id="1">

## Overview

The initial release of Testray is a tricky one mostly because it will be a balance between features that we need to productize and features that Liferay can heavily benefit from. The focus will be to limit the amount of new features that get into the product, finishing the features that were started and treating features that don't fit the productization vision as extensions. Testray should feel modern and should simplify the test management. 

</article>

<article id="2">

## Feature Umbrellas

#### Core Essentials

Core essentials focus on Test Management core functionality. Here we need to provide users with the ability to design their project with the standard metadata used in software testing. We want to provide them with the ability to design builds easily with suites and templates so planners use lest time designing and more time doing things that matter more.

*Test Planning*
1. Users should be able to plan test sessions to test their products for releases
1. Users should be able to use Testray to determine root cause analysis

*Basic Metrics*
1. Users should be able to see the health of their product with rolled up graphs

#### Integrations

Integrations are important for bringing together different contexts that synergize with the test management product. Bug reporting systems are going to be one the most important integrations so users can link and report bugs that they find during testing. Knowing what your test did is important in root cause analysis, so we wanted to highlight Cucumber integration as a strong point in Testray. Many other products have limited support for cucumber where only the results themselves get into the system. Test should take it further and allow the Cucumber results to import the feature files as Case information.

*JIRA*
1. Integration should be easy
1. Users should be able to report issues within Testray and have it synced up with JIRA
1. JIRA integration should allow users to have the JIRA context within Testray

*Cucumber*
1. Integration should be easy
1. Users should be able to see Cucumber test results within Testray

#### Tools

There are two main tools that we want to highlight as game changing features and thats Autofill and TestFlow. Compare is another feature we'll be including in 1.0. These features will be advertized as a huge productivity boost in the form of our own user journey.

*Autofiller*

*Compare*

*TestFlow*

</article>
